_tabs/about.md, before:

---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

---
layout: default
title: Rishi Vemulapalli
---

<style>
  /* Customize Fonts */
  h1, h2 {
    font-family: 'Arial Black', sans-serif;
    color: #003366;
  }
  
  h1 {
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 3em;
    margin-top: 0.5em;
  }
  
  h2 {
    color: #0073e6;
    margin-bottom: 0.3em;
  }
  
  p, ul {
    font-family: 'Roboto', sans-serif;
    font-size: 1.1em;
  }

  /* Custom Link Style */
  a {
    color: #0044cc;
    text-decoration: none;
  }
  
  a:hover {
    color: #ffa500;
    text-decoration: underline;
  }

  /* Section styling */
  .section {
    border-left: 4px solid #0073e6;
    padding-left: 1em;
    margin-bottom: 2em;
  }

  /* Card layout for projects */
  .project-card {
    border: 1px solid #cccccc;
    padding: 1em;
    border-radius: 8px;
    background-color: #f8f9fa;
    margin-bottom: 1em;
  }

  /* Profile Picture */
  .profile-pic {
    display: block;
    margin: 0 auto;
    border-radius: 50%;
    width: 150px;
    border: 3px solid #003366;
    margin-bottom: 1em;
  }
</style>

# Rishi Vemulapalli

<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/v2/D4E35AQHROgqCgihYrg/profile-framedphoto-shrink_400_400/profile-framedphoto-shrink_400_400/0/1725948925073?e=1731531600&v=beta&t=XUpie00uy-BgaDLpds8YV-LG1uRyXair4ZT5nXomBpA" alt="Rishi Vemulapalli" class="profile-pic"/>

Welcome to my GitHub Pages! I’m a Computer Engineering student at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, specializing in **Artificial Intelligence**, **Robotics**, and **Cybernetics**. Here, you’ll find insights into my projects, skills, and leadership roles that showcase my dedication to innovation in engineering.

---

## 📚 Education
### University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Grainger College of Engineering  
**Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering**  
- Concentrations: Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, and Cybernetics  
- Relevant Coursework: Analog Signal Processing, Game Development, Data Structures & Algorithms

---

## 💼 Experience
<div class="section">

### Illini VEX Robotics  
**Programming Team Lead** (Aug 2023 – Present)  
- Designed localization and path planning algorithms for autonomous navigation.
- Improved team efficiency by 20% through optimized code.

**Full-Stack Developer** (Aug 2024 – Present)  
- Developing a responsive, professional website for team visibility and sponsorship.

</div>

---

## 🚀 Projects
<div class="project-card">
  ### Custom Quadruped Robot  
  **Role:** Software Developer  
  - Developing custom motors and inverse kinematics for stable movement.
  - Integrating multi-sensor feedback for obstacle detection and decision-making.
</div>

<div class="project-card">
  ### ML Fitness Tracker  
  **Role:** Software Developer  
  - Real-time activity recognition with Python and Matplotlib.
  - Applying machine learning for exercise tracking with high accuracy.
</div>

---

## 🌱 Leadership and Community Involvement
### RoboHawks Robotics Club Inc.
- Co-founder, mentor, and lead programmer, promoting STEM and guiding students in robotic design.
- Led the team to sustainable growth with a focus on educational outreach.

### Jericho VEX Robotics Club
- Competed at the 2023 VEX Robotics World Championship.
- Enhanced robot control with PID, Odometry, and Bang Bang Controller systems.

---

## 🛠 Skills
- **Languages:** Java, Python, C/C++, C#, JavaScript, Swift  
- **Frameworks & Libraries:** OpenCV, TensorFlow  
- **Tools:** Git/GitHub, Linux, Unity, Autodesk Fusion 360  

---

## 📬 Get In Touch
Feel free to connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rishi-vemulapalli/) or explore more of my work on my [portfolio](https://v3rac1ty.github.io/).  


<h3 align="left">Languages and Tools:</h3>
<p align="left"> <a href="https://developer.android.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/android/android-original-wordmark.svg" alt="android" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.arduino.cc/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://cdn.worldvectorlogo.com/logos/arduino-1.svg" alt="arduino" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/gnu_bash/gnu_bash-icon.svg" alt="bash" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.blender.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://download.blender.org/branding/community/blender_community_badge_white.svg" alt="blender" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.cprogramming.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/c/c-original.svg" alt="c" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/cpp/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/cplusplus/cplusplus-original.svg" alt="cplusplus" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/cs/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/csharp/csharp-original.svg" alt="csharp" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/css/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg" alt="css3" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://git-scm.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/git-scm/git-scm-icon.svg" alt="git" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3.org/html/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg" alt="html5" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.java.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/java/java-original.svg" alt="java" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" alt="javascript" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.linux.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" alt="linux" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.mathworks.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/21/Matlab_Logo.png" alt="matlab" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://opencv.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/opencv/opencv-icon.svg" alt="opencv" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://pandas.pydata.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/2ae2a900d2f041da66e950e4d48052658d850630/icons/pandas/pandas-original.svg" alt="pandas" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.photoshop.com/en" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/photoshop/photoshop-line.svg" alt="photoshop" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://pytorch.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/pytorch/pytorch-icon.svg" alt="pytorch" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/ruby/ruby-original.svg" alt="ruby" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://developer.apple.com/swift/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/swift/swift-original.svg" alt="swift" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.tensorflow.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/tensorflow/tensorflow-icon.svg" alt="tensorflow" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://unity.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/unity3d/unity3d-icon.svg" alt="unity" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://unrealengine.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kenangundogan/fontisto/036b7eca71aab1bef8e6a0518f7329f13ed62f6b/icons/svg/brand/unreal-engine.svg" alt="unreal" width="40" height="40"/> </a> </p>

<p><img align="center" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs?username=v3rac1ty&show_icons=true&locale=en&layout=compact" alt="v3rac1ty" /></p>

Commit message:

Fixed Formatting on About page

_tabs/about.md, after:

---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

---
layout: default
title: Rishi Vemulapalli
---

<style>
  /* Customize Fonts */
  h1, h2 {
    font-family: 'Arial Black', sans-serif;
    color: #003366;
  }
  
  h1 {
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 3em;
    margin-top: 0.5em;
  }
  
  h2 {
    color: #0073e6;
    margin-bottom: 0.3em;
  }
  
  p, ul {
    font-family: 'Roboto', sans-serif;
    font-size: 1.1em;
  }

  /* Custom Link Style */
  a {
    color: #0044cc;
    text-decoration: none;
  }
  
  a:hover {
    color: #ffa500;
    text-decoration: underline;
  }

  /* Section styling */
  .section {
    border-left: 4px solid #0073e6;
    padding-left: 1em;
    margin-bottom: 2em;
  }

  /* Card layout for projects */
  .project-card {
    border: 1px solid #cccccc;
    padding: 1em;
    border-radius: 8px;
    background-color: #f8f9fa;
    margin-bottom: 1em;
  }

  /* Profile Picture */
  .profile-pic {
    display: block;
    margin: 0 auto;
    border-radius: 50%;
    width: 150px;
    border: 3px solid #003366;
    margin-bottom: 1em;
  }
</style>

# Rishi Vemulapalli

<img src="https://media.licdn.com/dms/image/v2/D4E35AQHROgqCgihYrg/profile-framedphoto-shrink_400_400/profile-framedphoto-shrink_400_400/0/1725948925073?e=1731531600&v=beta&t=XUpie00uy-BgaDLpds8YV-LG1uRyXair4ZT5nXomBpA" alt="Rishi Vemulapalli" class="profile-pic"/>

Welcome to my GitHub Pages! My name is Rishi Vemulapalli, a sophomore at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, pursuing a B.S. in **Computer Engineering** and a **Data Science Minor** with a specialization in **Artificial Intelligence**, **Robotics**, and **Cybernetics**. I co-founded a FIRST Tech Challenge team and a non-profit organization to promote STEM education among young learners. Currently, as a Programming Lead for Illini VEX Robotics, I lead the team to develop cutting-edge autonomous navigation algorithms. I am highly passionate about artificial intelligence and machine learning, and I am actively seeking research and internship opportunities to further advance my skills and knowledge in these fields.

---

## 📚 Education
### University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Grainger College of Engineering  
**Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering**  
- **Concentrations:** Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, and Cybernetics  
- **Relevant Coursework:** Analog Signal Processing, Data Structures & Algorithms, Game Development, Discrete Structures, Computer Systems & Programming, Intro to Electronics, Intro to Computing.
- **Prospective Coursework:** Database Systems, Introduction to Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, Computer Systems Engineering, Control Systems, Machine Learning, Robot Dynamics and Control, Applied Machine Learning.


---

## 💼 Experience

### Illini VEX Robotics  
**Programming Team Lead** (Aug 2023 – Present)  
- Designed localization and path planning algorithms for autonomous navigation.
- Improved team efficiency by 20% through optimized code architecture.

**Full-Stack Developer** (Aug 2024 – Present)  
- Developing a responsive, professional website for team visibility and sponsorship.

---

## 🚀 Projects
### Custom Quadruped Robot  
**Role:** Software Developer  
- Developing custom motors and inverse kinematics for stable movement.
- Integrating multi-sensor feedback for obstacle detection and decision-making.

### ML Fitness Tracker  
**Role:** Software Developer  
- Real-time activity recognition with Python and Matplotlib.
- Applying machine learning for exercise tracking with high accuracy.

---

## 🌱 Leadership and Community Involvement
### RoboHawks Robotics Club Inc.
- Co-founder, mentor, and lead programmer, promoting STEM and guiding students in robotic design.
- Led the team to sustainable growth with a focus on educational outreach.

### Jericho VEX Robotics Club
- Competed at the 2023 VEX Robotics World Championship.
- Enhanced robot control with PID, Odometry, and Bang Bang Controller systems.

---

## 🛠 Skills
- **Languages:** Java, Python, C/C++, C#, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Swift 
- **Frameworks & Libraries:** OpenCV, TensorFlow
- **Tools:** Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, Jupyter Notebooks, Git/Github, Linux, Unreal Engine, Unity Engine, Autodesk Fusion 360.


---

## 📬 Get In Touch
Feel free to connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/rishi-vemulapalli/) or explore more of my work on my [portfolio](https://v3rac1ty.github.io/).  


<h3 align="left">Languages and Tools:</h3>
<p align="left"> <a href="https://developer.android.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/android/android-original-wordmark.svg" alt="android" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.arduino.cc/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://cdn.worldvectorlogo.com/logos/arduino-1.svg" alt="arduino" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/gnu_bash/gnu_bash-icon.svg" alt="bash" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.blender.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://download.blender.org/branding/community/blender_community_badge_white.svg" alt="blender" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.cprogramming.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/c/c-original.svg" alt="c" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/cpp/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/cplusplus/cplusplus-original.svg" alt="cplusplus" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/cs/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/csharp/csharp-original.svg" alt="csharp" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/css/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg" alt="css3" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://git-scm.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/git-scm/git-scm-icon.svg" alt="git" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.w3.org/html/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg" alt="html5" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.java.com" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/java/java-original.svg" alt="java" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" alt="javascript" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.linux.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/linux/linux-original.svg" alt="linux" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.mathworks.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/2/21/Matlab_Logo.png" alt="matlab" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://opencv.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/opencv/opencv-icon.svg" alt="opencv" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://pandas.pydata.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/2ae2a900d2f041da66e950e4d48052658d850630/icons/pandas/pandas-original.svg" alt="pandas" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.photoshop.com/en" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/photoshop/photoshop-line.svg" alt="photoshop" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://pytorch.org/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/pytorch/pytorch-icon.svg" alt="pytorch" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/ruby/ruby-original.svg" alt="ruby" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://developer.apple.com/swift/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/swift/swift-original.svg" alt="swift" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://www.tensorflow.org" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/tensorflow/tensorflow-icon.svg" alt="tensorflow" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://unity.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/unity3d/unity3d-icon.svg" alt="unity" width="40" height="40"/> </a> <a href="https://unrealengine.com/" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer"> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kenangundogan/fontisto/036b7eca71aab1bef8e6a0518f7329f13ed62f6b/icons/svg/brand/unreal-engine.svg" alt="unreal" width="40" height="40"/> </a> </p>

<p><img align="center" src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs?username=v3rac1ty&show_icons=true&locale=en&layout=compact" alt="v3rac1ty" /></p>
